feat: Laravel 12 quickstart with tests (#7028)
drud/ddev: docs/content/users/quickstart.md

=== "Composer"

    Laravel defaults to SQLite, but we use MariaDB to better mimic a production environment:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-laravel-site && cd my-laravel-site
    ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public
    ddev start
    ddev composer create "laravel/laravel:^12"
    ddev launch
    ```

=== "Composer (SQLite)"

    To use the SQLite configuration provided by Laravel:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-laravel-site && cd my-laravel-site
    ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public --omit-containers=db --disable-settings-management=true
    ddev start
    ddev composer create "laravel/laravel:^12"
    ddev launch
    ```

    To switch an existing Laravel project to SQLite:

    ```bash
    ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public --omit-containers=db --disable-settings-management=true
    ddev restart
    ddev composer run-script post-root-package-install
    ddev dotenv set .env --db-connection=sqlite

>     ddev composer run-script post-create-project-cmd

Author: `post-root-package-install` copies `.env.example` to `.env` if it doesn't exist, then we set the `sqlite` connection in `.env`, and finally run migrations in `post-create-project-cmd`.

    mkdir my-laravel-site && cd my-laravel-site

>     ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public

Reviewer: there is only one minor nitpick about a detail i've just noticed. line 536 refers to line 534 stating that it is using mariadb, while line 538 uses sqlite instead. the detail i dont understand, with the active default you set the project up for mariadb but in line 553 sqlite is used anyway? that is not entirely clear to me why you use mariadb and sqlite alongside? 

and in general the comment in 536 is hard to comprehend cuz it requires that you jump in-between lines referring to the lines before and after the comment. Plus if the quickstart states "This config uses.."  strictly speaking me as the recipient would expect that line 538 would set up mariadb. how about something like the following instead? 

```
# To use MariaDB apply the following command
ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public

# To use SQLite, uncomment and use the following command instead
#ddev config --omit-containers=db --disable-settings-management=true
```

Author: >  but in line 553 sqlite is used anyway?

It's because if you specify a different database (other than SQLite) at this point, the database migrations will fail, which would cause more confusion. You can try it with:

```
ddev exec laravel new temp
ddev exec laravel new temp --database=mariadb
```

I don’t have access to alter the `.env` content when running `laravel new`.

I tried to make the comment for `ddev exec laravel new temp --database=sqlite` a bit clearer.

> how about something like the following instead?
> `# To use SQLite, uncomment and use the following command instead`

Good idea! I think it's better to add `--project-type=laravel --docroot=public` in this case when we say "instead".

Reviewer: ah thanks for the explanation. i like the improvements you made to the comment! and yep i also agree adding `--project-type=laravel --docroot=public`. looks good, thank you!

    ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public
    ddev start
    ddev composer install
    ddev composer run-script post-root-package-install
    ddev composer run-script post-create-project-cmd
    ddev launch
    ```

!!!tip "Want to use a SQLite database for Laravel?"
    DDEV defaults to using a MariaDB database to better represent a production environment.

>     To select the [Laravel defaults](https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/releases#application-defaults) for SQLite, use this command for `ddev config`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To use a SQLite database when creating a new project, replace the `ddev config` command with the following instead:
```

This removes the link, which is a moving target.

    ```bash
    ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public --omit-containers=db --disable-settings-management=true
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: A problem with this section is that only applies when starting a new project.
For existing projects you need to:

- update `.env` to `DB_CONNECTION="sqlite"`

```bash
ddev config --project-type=laravel --docroot=public --omit-containers=db --disable-settings-management=true
ddev restart
ddev artisan migrate:fresh
 ```

If you don't update the `.env` you will get the following error (included for searchability): 

```
SQLSTATE[HY000] [2002] php_network_getaddresses: getaddrinfo for db failed: Name or service not known (Connection: mariadb, SQL: select * from `sessions` where `id` = jvwGaqOpdMyrsUZa412ljRqpuaNOIqPSw2NJE2XN limit 1)
```

Author: Nice catch!

I think we should put the SQLite config on a separate tab, where we mention how to migrate from one to the other.

If we add everything on one tab, it will complicate things for newcomers.
